# elog-ldap
ELOG logbook manager with ldap authentification in an Alpine based docker.

This Dockerfile creates a docker image of an elog server (https://midas.psi.ch/elog/) built on Alpine linux (https://alpinelinux.org/).
This version is a fork of **fincle/elog-alpine** docker with LDAP support.

The idea is to build the lightest possible deployment so that it may be run on a lab computer with many other common tools: i.e. to have the least possible overhead.

A number of other docker builds use Ubuntu and Debian, and, therefore contain a lot of unnecessary stuff. This is an attempt to make it as small as possible with all config and data stored in an mounted volume external to the container.

## Building the docker image locally
Pull docker from github with
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/loll31/elog-ldap
cd ./elog-ldap
```

You can modify the elogd.cfg file if you like, or not, and then build
```
docker build -t elog-ldap .
```

You can also get the images directly from docker, useful if you want to deploy directly from Portainer by example...

```
docker pull usinagaz/elog-ldap
```

To run the docker image on local machine
```
docker run -p 8080:8080 \
  --mount source=my-logbooks,target=/usr/local/elog/logbooks \
  --mount source=/path/to/elogd.cfg,target=/usr/local/elog/elogd.cfg \
  --mount source=/path/to/elogd.passwd,target=/etc/elogd.passwd \
  elog-ldap:latest
```

Here my-logbooks is a docker defined volume, this can be made with 
```
docker volume create my-logbooks
```
or by any other way you make/mount a volume to docker.

The elogd.cfg and elogd.passwd binds permit to define custom elog configuration and to keep user DB changes.

Normally, You can then access from a browser at http://localhost:8080.


## SSL access

SSL option is activated durinf elog build (by default).
If you need to use if, add SSL=1 in elogd.cfg and bind at docker start the server certificate/key to use.
By default, ELOG is provided with autogenerated certificate under /usr/local/elog/ssl/server.[key|crt].

This feature is untested with this docker.


## LDAP configuration

Add the following params in global section of elogd.cfg to use external LDAP server for user authentification :

        # LDAP authentification
        Authentication = LDAP
        # LDAP IP address and port. LDAPS should work. PLZ update
        LDAP server = ldap://10.0.0.1:389
        # User organization to search. PLZ update
        LDAP userbase = cn=users,dc=prject,dc=corp,dc=fr
        # login attribute. PLZ update
        LDAP login attribute = uid
        LDAP register = 1
        # allow user to connect
        Self register = 1
        # do not allow password update from ELOG (use LDAP selfservice)
        Allow password change = 0


## SMTP notification (to be tested)

Add the following params in global section of elogd.cfg to send notification thru external MAIL server :

        # Mail server
        SMTP host = mail.corp.fr
        Default Email From = elog-notif@corp.fr
        Use Email Subject = CORP / ELOG $logbook $message id : $objet
        Use Email Heading = Bonjour, une nouvelle entree a ete ajoute dans le logbook $logbook par $long_name le $date .<br>
        Use Email Subject Edit = COPR / ELOG $logbook $message id (maj) : $objet
        Use Email Heading Edit = Bonjour, l'entree a ete modifiee dans le logbook $logbook par $long_name le $date .<br>
        # mail w/ (127) or wo attachments (111)
        Email Format = 127
        # encoding: 1=text 2=html+ELCODE 4=html
        Email Encoding = 4
        # mail sent disabled by default
        Suppress default = 1
        # mail sent after edit disabled by default
        Suppress Email on edit = 1

This feature is untested with this docker.


## Some asides
The current image builds from alpine:3.13 (make fails with 3.14) and the lastest released version of elog. 

This ELOG Docker provides ImageMagick and CKeditor (included in ELOG scripts sources).

Logbooks subscription to received mails are not tested at this time. Thanks to report if OK or Not.
